Now, there are two main types of network management protocols that you should be aware of when studying
network management protocols and how to manage your network.
Always think about how the protocols work and the advantages and disadvantages of the two main types
of network management protocols, the two types of query based, which means that the network management
station or NMS asks a question from a device and then waits for a response.
And then you have event-based protocols where the network management station simply listens for announcements
or events from the network.
So with query-based, the network management station is sending a query to a router to extract information
from that router, whereas with event-based protocols, a router or switch would inform the network management
station of an issue or of something taking place as an example, an interface goes down
that's an event
and a message is sent to the network management station to inform the network management station of
that event taking place.